Javascript Typing Test (workshop) (#1595)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/javascript_typing_test/README.md

---
name: 'Javascript Typing Test'
description: 'A Typing Test website built with HTML, CSS, and Javascript'
author: '@GurshanBrar'
img: 'https://cloud-gny03pu07.vercel.app/0javascript_typing_test_cover.png'
---

> ### First up, the project

Reviewer: Double check the grammar and phrasing

Obviously we need to know what we'll build before starting the workshop, so here's the [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-final.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and the [final code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-Final). These images show our final project:

![Screenshot of the final site for the test portion](https://cloud-1v9gb7z3j.vercel.app/0javascript_typing_test_final_image_1.png)

![Screenshot of the final site for the results portion](https://cloud-1v9gb7z3j.vercel.app/1javascript_typing_test_final_image_2.png)

### Prerequisites
This project will be more fun to code if you have a general understanding of HTML, CSS, and Javascript. However don't worry if you don't because you can definitely complete this workshop without any prerequisites.

### Focus
Yes, **focus**. JK. This workshop will focus on Javascript, so you'll have a starter template including HTML and CSS that will be explained.

### The IDE
An IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is just fancy speak for where your code will run. We'll be using [repl.it](https://repl.it) as our IDE because...  

> 1. It saves your code in the cloud

Reviewer: check the ordered lists
they will not render properly on the site

Inside the ```<div>``` there is an ```<h1>``` and a ```<p>```. The ```<h1>``` tag defines an HTML heading. The ```<p>``` tag represents a text. 

You can see how we have a weird class called ```font-weight-light```. Well it turns out, there's another great property of ```class``` in our case. Remember that Bootstrap stylesheet we used? That stylesheet contains custom styles that are referenced under class names. Using those class names in our HTML will allow the stylesheet to select our element and the styles will be applied. 

Therefore, a class we use is [```font-weight-light```](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/utilities/text/#font-weight-and-italics). This class means that the text will have a *light* look and feel to it. It allows us to create different styles very easily and we don't have to code any CSS for this purpose!

To create the container to hold our text for typing, we use this code:
```html
<div id="main" class="container main">

> 		<div class="text-container" id="text-container"></div>

Reviewer: take care of indentation

- A try again button! We can add a try again button to our workshop. Here's the [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-final-1.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v1#index.html).
- Save our results in ```localStorage```. ```localStorage``` is a place on a user's browser to store data. We can store the results there, and fetch them every time we complete the typing test! [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-v2.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v2#script.js).
- Add a nice little navbar. We can add a navbar that links to your github and has a link to Hackclub. Just make sure to read the comment inside the HTML file. [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-v3.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v3#index.html).

A version with all of these features is [here](javascript-typing-test.netlify.app)

> If you have any questions, you can ping me on slack(@Gurshan) or [my github](https://github.com/gurshanbrar). 

Reviewer: You can add the link to your hackclub slack profile

- A try again button! We can add a try again button to our workshop. Here's the [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-final-1.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and the [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v1#index.html).
- Save our results in ```localStorage```. ```localStorage``` is a place on a user's browser to store data. We can store the results there, and fetch them every time we complete the typing test! The [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-v2.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and the [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v2#script.js).
- Add a nice little navbar. We can add a navbar that links to your github and has a link to Hackclub. Just make sure to read the comment inside the HTML file. The [final demo](https://javascript-typing-test-v3.gurshanbrar.repl.co/) and the [source code](https://repl.it/@GurshanBrar/Javascript-Typing-Test-v3#index.html).

A version with all of these features is [here](javascript-typing-test.netlify.app)

> If you have any questions, you can ping me on [my slack profile](hackclub.slack.com/team/U0198EM6ZA7) or [my github](https://github.com/gurshanbrar). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any questions, you can message me on [Slack](hackclub.slack.com/team/U0198EM6ZA7) or [visit my GitHub](https://github.com/gurshanbrar). 
```
